Blocks:
1. Blocks are ordered set of transactions
2. Block created by ordering services and validated by peers.

Chain:
1. Transactions log structured as hash-linked block of transactions

Peers:
1. A blockchain network is comprised primarily of a set of peer nodes (or, simply, peers). 
2. Peers are a fundamental element of the network because they host ledgers and smart contracts.

Anchor Peer:
1. A peer node on a channel that all other peers can discover and communicate with them. 
2. Each Member on a channel has an anchor peer allowing for peers belonging to different Members to discover all existing peers on a channel.

Ledger:
1. A series (or chain) of blocks on which transaction details are recorded after suitable authentication and verification by the designated network participants

Chaincode:
1. Business logic in the form of executable program(CRUD) through which we can interact with data on blockchain ledger

Channel:
1. A channel is a private communication pathway between two or more members of a Hyperledger Fabric network on Amazon Managed Blockchain

Concurrency Control Version Check:
1. Method of keeping ledger state in sync across peers on a channel.

Consensus:
1. Procedure in which the peers of a Blockchain network reach agreement about the present state of the data in the network.
2. No single node can hold the control of network of blockchain

Consentor Set:
1. Ordering nodes that are actively participating in the consensus mechanism on a channel.

Technology Behind Blockchain:
1. The Data Structure: Distributed ledger
2. Cryptography and Digital signature: Ensure security and temper proof architecture of the entire blockchain
3. The Consensus: over a permission-less environment
4. The Economy of the Revenue Model: Encourage participants to join in the mining procedure and validate the block

Types of blockchain:

Public: 
1. Public blockchains are open networks that allow anyone to participate in the network
2. Public blockchains is permissionless
3. In public blockchain anyone can join the network and read, write, or participate within the blockchain. 
4. Public blockchain is decentralized and does not have a single entity which controls the network.

Private:
1. Private blockchain is managed by a network administrator and participants need consent to join the network
2. Private blockchain is a permissioned blockchain
3. There are one or more entities which control the network
4. In public blockchain only entity participating in the transaction have knowledge about the transaction

Key-difference in both types:
1. Security –
Public: Due to the higher number of nodes in the network, it is nearly impossible for ‘bad actors’ to attack the system and gain control over the consensus network.

Private: A private blockchain is more prone to hacks, risks, and data breaches/ manipulation. It is easy for bad actors to endanger the entire network. Hence, it is less secure.

Permissioned Blockchain:

1. Permissioned blockchain is a distributed ledger that is not publicly accessible. 
2. It can only be accessed by users with permissions. 
3. The users can only perform specific actions granted to them by the ledger administrators
4. The users are required to identify themselves through certificates or other digital means.

Difference Between and Permissioned and Private Blockchain?:

1. A private blockchain is one in which only specific users have access and abilities and is generally used only by the entity it belongs to.
2. A permissioned blockchain is a hybrid of public and private blockchains where multiple users are given permissions and abilities.

Properties of cryptographic hash functions:
1. Collision-free: If two messages are different then there digest(hash value computed by hash function) also differs.
2. Hiding: Hide the original message(One way function)
3. Puzzle-Friendly: Two messages are given like X,Y and we have to compute value of k 

SHA 256:
1. Secure hash algorithm(SHA) that generates 256 bit message digest

Digital Signature:
1. A digital code which can be included with an electronically transmitted document to verify

Public key cryptography:

We have two method:

1. Encryption:The key is used to convert a plain text to cypher text
2. Decryption:The key is used to convert cypher text to a original plain text

We have two types of key:(crosscheck)

1. Public key: encrypt the message
2. Private key: decrypt the message

Use private key to sign the message
Use public key to verify the message




127.0.0.1   orderer0.bcp.osqo.com
127.0.0.1   orderer0.broker.osqo.com
127.0.0.1   orderer0.esp.osqo.com 
127.0.0.1   orderer0.osqo.osqo.com 
127.0.0.1   peer0.bcp.osqo.com 
127.0.0.1   peer0.broker.osqo.com
127.0.0.1   peer0.esp.osqo.com
127.0.0.1   peer0.osqo.osqo.com 
127.0.0.1   peer1.bcp.osqo.com 
127.0.0.1   peer1.broker.osqo.com
127.0.0.1   peer1.esp.osqo.com
127.0.0.1   peer1.osqo.osqo.com 





